RefactoringMiner/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  
# [Refactoring Miner.](https://github.com/BrenoFariasdaSilva/Worked-Example-Miner/tree/main/RefactoringMiner) <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/python/python-original.svg"  width="3%" height="3%">

</div>

<div align="center">
  
---

Welcome to the Refactoring Miner directory, in which you will find the scripts that generates the refactoring script of an specific commit of a class or method of a repository and the script that generates the refactorings for an entire repository. The scripts that are located in this directory are part of the [Worked-Example-Miner (WEM)](https://github.com/BrenoFariasdaSilva/Worked-Example-Miner) Tool.

RefactoringMiner stands out as an instrument for the analysis of software maintenance and evolution, empowering both developers and researchers with deep insights into the dynamics of code evolution via refactorings. The tool captures refactorings, cataloging them in JSON files. These files serve as a codebase analyses, enabling the identification of significant refactoring patterns and trends that mark the software's evolutionary journey. Such insights are crucial for comprehensively understanding the ramifications of refactorings on the codebase, shedding light on their influence on the software's quality and maintainability.

With our objective to craft a compelling worked example for Software Engineering classes, particularly focusing on Distributed Systems Open-Source Softwares, RefactoringMiner's capabilities become even more pronounced. It aids in pinpointing potential classes and methods ripe for refactoring, setting the stage for the development of a meticulously designed example. This not only demonstrates the practical application of refactorings but also enhances the learning experience by providing a real-world context to the theoretical concepts discussed in class.
  
---

</div> 

- [Refactoring Miner. ](#refactoring-miner-)
  - [Important Notes](#important-notes)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Python and Pip](#python-and-pip)
      - [Linux](#linux)
      - [MacOS](#macos)
      - [Windows](#windows)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
    - [Cleaning Up](#cleaning-up)
  - [How to use](#how-to-use)
    - [Repositories Refactors](#repositories-refactors)
      - [Configuration](#configuration)
      - [Run](#run)
      - [Workflow](#workflow)
    - [Metrics Evolution Refactors](#metrics-evolution-refactors)
      - [Configuration](#configuration-1)
    - [RefactoringMiner JSON Output](#refactoringminer-json-output)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Important Notes

- Make sure you don't have whitespaces in the path of the project, otherwise it will not work.
- All of the Scripts have a `VERBOSE` constant, which is set to `False` by default, so it will only print the progress bar of the script execution. If you want to see the progress bar and the print statements, you must set the `VERBOSE` constant to `True`.
- All of the Scripts have a `Makefile`that handles virtual environment creation, dependencies installation and script execution. You can run the scripts by using the `make` command, as shown in the `How to use` section.

## Setup

This section provides instructions for installing the Python Language and Pip Python package manager, as well as the project's dependencies. It also explains how to run the scripts using the provided `makefile`. The `makefile` automates the process of creating a virtual environment, installing dependencies, and running the scripts.

### Python and Pip

In order to run the scripts, you must have python3 and pip installed in your machine. If you don't have it installed, you can use the following commands to install it:

#### Linux

In order to install python3 and pip in Linux, you can use the following commands:

```
sudo apt install python3 -y
sudo apt install python3-pip -y
```

#### MacOS

In order to install python3 and pip in MacOS, you can use the following commands:

```
brew install python3
```

#### Windows

In order to install python3 and pip in Windows, you can use the following commands in case you have `choco` installed:

```
choco install python3
```

Or just download the installer from the [official website](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

Great, you now have python3 and pip installed. Now, we need to install the project requirements/dependencies.

### Requirements

This project depends on the following libraries:

- [NumPy](https://numpy.org/) -> NumPy is used to generate the linear prediction of the linear regression and to many operations in the list of the metrics.
- [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) -> Pandas is used maintly to read and write the csv files.
- [PyDriller](https://pydriller.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) -> PyDriller is used to get the number of commits of the repositories.
- [TQDM](https://tqdm.github.io/) -> TQDM is used to show the progress bar of the scripts.

Futhermore, this project requires a virtual environment to ensure all dependencies are installed and managed in an isolated manner. A virtual environment is a self-contained directory tree that contains a Python installation for a particular version of Python, plus a number of additional packages. Using a virtual environment helps avoid conflicts between project dependencies and system-wide Python packages. 

To set up and use a virtual environment for this project, we leverage Python's built-in `venv` module. The `makefile` included with the project automates the process of creating a virtual environment, installing the necessary dependencies, and running scripts within this environment.

Follow these steps to prepare your environment:

1. **Create and Activate the Virtual Environment** 
   
   The project uses a `makefile` to streamline the creation and activation of a virtual environment named `venv`. This environment is where all required packages, such as `numpy`, `pandas` and `tqdm`, will be installed.
This will also be handled by the `Makefile` during the dependencies installation process, so no command must be executed in order to create the virtual environment.

1. **Install Dependencies** 
   
   Run the following command to set up the virtual environment and install all necessary dependencies on it:

      ```
      make dependencies
      ```

   This command performs the following actions:
   - Initializes a new virtual environment by running `python3 -m venv venv`.
   - Installs the project's dependencies within the virtual environment using `pip` based on the `requirements.txt` file. The `requirements.txt` file contains a list of all required packages and their versions. This is the recommended way to manage dependencies in Python projects, as it allows for consistent and reproducible installations across different environments.

2. **Running Scripts**
   
   The `makefile` also defines commands to run every script with the virtual environment's Python interpreter. For example, to run the `repositories_refactors.py` file, use:

   ```
   make repositories_refactors_script
   ```

   This ensures that the script runs using the Python interpreter and packages installed in the `venv` directory.

3. **Generate the requirements.txt file**

   If you changed the project dependencies and want to update the `requirements.txt` file, you can run the following command:

      ```
      make generate_requirements
      ```

   This command will generate the `requirements.txt` file in the root of the tool directory (PyDriller or RefactoringMiner), which will contain all the dependencies used in the virtual environment of the project.

### Cleaning Up

To clean your project directory from the virtual environment and Python cache files, use the `clean` rule defined in the `makefile`:

```
make clean
```

This command removes the `venv` directory and deletes any cached Python files in the project directory, helping maintain a clean workspace.

By following these instructions, you'll ensure that all project dependencies are correctly managed and isolated, leading to a more stable and consistent development environment.

## How to use

In order to use the makefile rules, you must be in the `RefactoringMiner` directory.

### Repositories Refactors

This script is used to generate the refactorings json file of an entire repository. It will generate the refactorings for each commit of the specified repositories in the `DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES` dictionary, in case they were not already generated.

#### Configuration

In order to run this code as you want, you must modify the following constants:

1. `VERBOSE`: If you want to see the progress bar and the print statements, you must set the `VERBOSE` constant to `True`. If not, then a more clean output will be shown, with only the progress bar of the script execution, which is the default value of the `VERBOSE` constant.
2. `DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES` dictionary in the `code_metrics.py` file, in which you must specify the repository name and the repository url.

#### Run

Now that you have set the constants, you can run the following command to execute the `repositories_refactors.py` file:

  ```shell
  make repositories_refactors_script
  ```

#### Workflow

1. As for every file in this project, the first thing it will do is verify if you don't have whitespaces in the path of the project, if you have, it will not work.  
2. In this step, the main function will call the `verify_refactorings()` to verify if the RefactoringMiner refactorings for the DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES were already generated. If not, it will generate them. This verification is done by verifying if the RefactoringMiner json output file is located in the `{ABSOLUTE_JSON_FILES_DIRECTORY_PATH}{RELATIVE_REPOSITORIES_REFACTORS_DIRECTORY_PATH}/{repository_name}.{JSON_FILE_FORMAT}` directory. If the file is not found, it will add the repository url to the `repositories` dictionary, using the repository name as the key.  
3. Now, in case there are repositories to be analyzed, it will create the json output directory and the repository directory if they don't exist.
4. Now it calls `process_repositories_concurrently(repositories)`, which will do the following steps:
   
   1. This function will loop through each of the repositories in the `repositories` dictionary.
   2. Inside this loop, it will output an estimated time of the script execution, based on the number of commits of the repository.
   3. Then, it will create a thread for handling the analysis of each repository, executing the `process_repository(repository_name, repository_url)` function.
   
5. Inside the `process_repository(repository_name, repository_url)` function, it will do the following steps: 
   1. It calls the `clone_repository(repository_name, repository_url)` function, which will clone or update the repository, depending on whether it already exists or not.
   2. In the next step, it will call the `generate_commit_refactors(repository_name)` function, which will generate the refactorings for each of the commits in the repository using the `-a` parameter of the `RefactoringMiner` tool and save the output in the `{ABSOLUTE_JSON_FILES_DIRECTORY_PATH}{RELATIVE_REPOSITORIES_REFACTORS_DIRECTORY_PATH}/{repository_name}.{JSON_FILE_FORMAT}` filepath.
   3. Lastly, it will output the execution time of the script, based on the start time and the end time of the script execution.
   
6. Now, the thread will finish and the script will wait for all the threads to finish, and output a end of the execution message.

### Metrics Evolution Refactors

This script is used to generate the refactorings json file of an specific commit of a class or method stored in the `FILES_TO_ANALYZE` dictionary for the repository name stored in the `DEFAULT_REPOSITORY`dictionary, in case they were not already generated. In order to run this script, you must have already executed the PyDriller `code_metrics.py` and `metrics_evolution.py` scripts, as the classes and methods to be analyzed are the ones selected by the result of the analysis of the PyDriller generated data and metadata.

#### Configuration

In order to run this code as you want, you must modify the following constants:

1. `VERBOSE`: If you want to see the progress bar and the print statements, you must set the `VERBOSE` constant to `True`. If not, then a more clean output will be shown, with only the progress bar of the script execution, which is the default value of the `VERBOSE` constant. This constant is imported from the `repositories_refactors.py` file.  
2. `DESIRED_REFACTORINGS_ONLY`: A boolean that indicates if you want to filter the refactorings by the ones listed on the `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE` list. If set to `True`, it will filter the refactorings by the `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE` variable. If set to `False`, it will not filter the refactorings by the `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE` variable.
3. `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE`: This must only be modified if the `DESIRED_REFACTORINGS_ONLY` is set to `True`. This is a list of the refactoring types that you are interested in. It must contain the names of the refactorings detected by RefactoringMiner. See more [here](https://github.com/tsantalis/RefactoringMiner?tab=readme-ov-file#general-info).  
4. `DEFAULT_REPOSITORY`: The repository name that has the classes or methods to be analyzed.  
5. `DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES`: A dictionary to store the repository name and the repository url. The `DEFAULT_REPOSITORY` must be one of the keys of this dictionary. This constant is imported from the `repositories_refactors.py` file.
6. `FILES_TO_ANALYZE`: A dictionary to store the files to analyze in the repository. It's keys (class name) and value (method name) must be the names of classes or methods that you want to analyze deeper after selecting them from the analysis of the PyDriller generated data and metadata.

### RefactoringMiner JSON Output

The script generates JSON files containing refactoring data for commits in the specified classes or methods of the repository. These files are organized in the `json_files` directory, following the repository's structure.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues while using the script, consider the following:

- Ensure that you have the required prerequisites installed and available in your system.

- Check the repository URL and make sure it is accessible.

- Verify that the paths specified in the script are correct, and the necessary directories exist.

- Verify if you have the PyDriller Metrics Evolution files that should be located as follows, otherwise it will not work:

  ```shell
  Worked-Example-Miner/PyDriller/metrics_evolution
  ```

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to this project, please read the Contributing section of the [Main README](../README.md) file, as well as the [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) file in this repository.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](../LICENSE). This license permits use, modification, distribution, and sublicense of the code for both private and commercial purposes, provided that the original copyright notice and a disclaimer of warranty are included in all copies or substantial portions of the software. It also requires a clear attribution back to the original author(s) of the repository. For more details, see the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file in this repository.

Commit message:

DOCS: Adding the Metrics Evolution Refactors Run Section to the RefactoringMiner README

RefactoringMiner/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  
# [Refactoring Miner.](https://github.com/BrenoFariasdaSilva/Worked-Example-Miner/tree/main/RefactoringMiner) <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/python/python-original.svg"  width="3%" height="3%">

</div>

<div align="center">
  
---

Welcome to the Refactoring Miner directory, in which you will find the scripts that generates the refactoring script of an specific commit of a class or method of a repository and the script that generates the refactorings for an entire repository. The scripts that are located in this directory are part of the [Worked-Example-Miner (WEM)](https://github.com/BrenoFariasdaSilva/Worked-Example-Miner) Tool.

RefactoringMiner stands out as an instrument for the analysis of software maintenance and evolution, empowering both developers and researchers with deep insights into the dynamics of code evolution via refactorings. The tool captures refactorings, cataloging them in JSON files. These files serve as a codebase analyses, enabling the identification of significant refactoring patterns and trends that mark the software's evolutionary journey. Such insights are crucial for comprehensively understanding the ramifications of refactorings on the codebase, shedding light on their influence on the software's quality and maintainability.

With our objective to craft a compelling worked example for Software Engineering classes, particularly focusing on Distributed Systems Open-Source Softwares, RefactoringMiner's capabilities become even more pronounced. It aids in pinpointing potential classes and methods ripe for refactoring, setting the stage for the development of a meticulously designed example. This not only demonstrates the practical application of refactorings but also enhances the learning experience by providing a real-world context to the theoretical concepts discussed in class.
  
---

</div> 

- [Refactoring Miner. ](#refactoring-miner-)
  - [Important Notes](#important-notes)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Python and Pip](#python-and-pip)
      - [Linux](#linux)
      - [MacOS](#macos)
      - [Windows](#windows)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
    - [Cleaning Up](#cleaning-up)
  - [How to use](#how-to-use)
    - [Repositories Refactors](#repositories-refactors)
      - [Configuration](#configuration)
      - [Run](#run)
      - [Workflow](#workflow)
    - [Metrics Evolution Refactors](#metrics-evolution-refactors)
      - [Configuration](#configuration-1)
      - [Run](#run-1)
    - [RefactoringMiner JSON Output](#refactoringminer-json-output)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Important Notes

- Make sure you don't have whitespaces in the path of the project, otherwise it will not work.
- All of the Scripts have a `VERBOSE` constant, which is set to `False` by default, so it will only print the progress bar of the script execution. If you want to see the progress bar and the print statements, you must set the `VERBOSE` constant to `True`.
- All of the Scripts have a `Makefile`that handles virtual environment creation, dependencies installation and script execution. You can run the scripts by using the `make` command, as shown in the `How to use` section.

## Setup

This section provides instructions for installing the Python Language and Pip Python package manager, as well as the project's dependencies. It also explains how to run the scripts using the provided `makefile`. The `makefile` automates the process of creating a virtual environment, installing dependencies, and running the scripts.

### Python and Pip

In order to run the scripts, you must have python3 and pip installed in your machine. If you don't have it installed, you can use the following commands to install it:

#### Linux

In order to install python3 and pip in Linux, you can use the following commands:

```
sudo apt install python3 -y
sudo apt install python3-pip -y
```

#### MacOS

In order to install python3 and pip in MacOS, you can use the following commands:

```
brew install python3
```

#### Windows

In order to install python3 and pip in Windows, you can use the following commands in case you have `choco` installed:

```
choco install python3
```

Or just download the installer from the [official website](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

Great, you now have python3 and pip installed. Now, we need to install the project requirements/dependencies.

### Requirements

This project depends on the following libraries:

- [NumPy](https://numpy.org/) -> NumPy is used to generate the linear prediction of the linear regression and to many operations in the list of the metrics.
- [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) -> Pandas is used maintly to read and write the csv files.
- [PyDriller](https://pydriller.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) -> PyDriller is used to get the number of commits of the repositories.
- [TQDM](https://tqdm.github.io/) -> TQDM is used to show the progress bar of the scripts.

Futhermore, this project requires a virtual environment to ensure all dependencies are installed and managed in an isolated manner. A virtual environment is a self-contained directory tree that contains a Python installation for a particular version of Python, plus a number of additional packages. Using a virtual environment helps avoid conflicts between project dependencies and system-wide Python packages. 

To set up and use a virtual environment for this project, we leverage Python's built-in `venv` module. The `makefile` included with the project automates the process of creating a virtual environment, installing the necessary dependencies, and running scripts within this environment.

Follow these steps to prepare your environment:

1. **Create and Activate the Virtual Environment** 
   
   The project uses a `makefile` to streamline the creation and activation of a virtual environment named `venv`. This environment is where all required packages, such as `numpy`, `pandas` and `tqdm`, will be installed.
This will also be handled by the `Makefile` during the dependencies installation process, so no command must be executed in order to create the virtual environment.

1. **Install Dependencies** 
   
   Run the following command to set up the virtual environment and install all necessary dependencies on it:

      ```
      make dependencies
      ```

   This command performs the following actions:
   - Initializes a new virtual environment by running `python3 -m venv venv`.
   - Installs the project's dependencies within the virtual environment using `pip` based on the `requirements.txt` file. The `requirements.txt` file contains a list of all required packages and their versions. This is the recommended way to manage dependencies in Python projects, as it allows for consistent and reproducible installations across different environments.

2. **Running Scripts**
   
   The `makefile` also defines commands to run every script with the virtual environment's Python interpreter. For example, to run the `repositories_refactors.py` file, use:

   ```
   make repositories_refactors_script
   ```

   This ensures that the script runs using the Python interpreter and packages installed in the `venv` directory.

3. **Generate the requirements.txt file**

   If you changed the project dependencies and want to update the `requirements.txt` file, you can run the following command:

      ```
      make generate_requirements
      ```

   This command will generate the `requirements.txt` file in the root of the tool directory (PyDriller or RefactoringMiner), which will contain all the dependencies used in the virtual environment of the project.

### Cleaning Up

To clean your project directory from the virtual environment and Python cache files, use the `clean` rule defined in the `makefile`:

```
make clean
```

This command removes the `venv` directory and deletes any cached Python files in the project directory, helping maintain a clean workspace.

By following these instructions, you'll ensure that all project dependencies are correctly managed and isolated, leading to a more stable and consistent development environment.

## How to use

In order to use the makefile rules, you must be in the `RefactoringMiner` directory.

### Repositories Refactors

This script is used to generate the refactorings json file of an entire repository. It will generate the refactorings for each commit of the specified repositories in the `DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES` dictionary, in case they were not already generated.

#### Configuration

In order to run this code as you want, you must modify the following constants:

1. `VERBOSE`: If you want to see the progress bar and the print statements, you must set the `VERBOSE` constant to `True`. If not, then a more clean output will be shown, with only the progress bar of the script execution, which is the default value of the `VERBOSE` constant.
2. `DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES` dictionary in the `code_metrics.py` file, in which you must specify the repository name and the repository url.

#### Run

Now that you have set the constants, you can run the following command to execute the `repositories_refactors.py` file:

  ```shell
  make repositories_refactors_script
  ```

#### Workflow

1. As for every file in this project, the first thing it will do is verify if you don't have whitespaces in the path of the project, if you have, it will not work.  
2. In this step, the main function will call the `verify_refactorings()` to verify if the RefactoringMiner refactorings for the DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES were already generated. If not, it will generate them. This verification is done by verifying if the RefactoringMiner json output file is located in the `{ABSOLUTE_JSON_FILES_DIRECTORY_PATH}{RELATIVE_REPOSITORIES_REFACTORS_DIRECTORY_PATH}/{repository_name}.{JSON_FILE_FORMAT}` directory. If the file is not found, it will add the repository url to the `repositories` dictionary, using the repository name as the key.  
3. Now, in case there are repositories to be analyzed, it will create the json output directory and the repository directory if they don't exist.
4. Now it calls `process_repositories_concurrently(repositories)`, which will do the following steps:
   
   1. This function will loop through each of the repositories in the `repositories` dictionary.
   2. Inside this loop, it will output an estimated time of the script execution, based on the number of commits of the repository.
   3. Then, it will create a thread for handling the analysis of each repository, executing the `process_repository(repository_name, repository_url)` function.
   
5. Inside the `process_repository(repository_name, repository_url)` function, it will do the following steps: 
   1. It calls the `clone_repository(repository_name, repository_url)` function, which will clone or update the repository, depending on whether it already exists or not.
   2. In the next step, it will call the `generate_commit_refactors(repository_name)` function, which will generate the refactorings for each of the commits in the repository using the `-a` parameter of the `RefactoringMiner` tool and save the output in the `{ABSOLUTE_JSON_FILES_DIRECTORY_PATH}{RELATIVE_REPOSITORIES_REFACTORS_DIRECTORY_PATH}/{repository_name}.{JSON_FILE_FORMAT}` filepath.
   3. Lastly, it will output the execution time of the script, based on the start time and the end time of the script execution.
   
6. Now, the thread will finish and the script will wait for all the threads to finish, and output a end of the execution message.

### Metrics Evolution Refactors

This script is used to generate the refactorings json file of an specific commit of a class or method stored in the `FILES_TO_ANALYZE` dictionary for the repository name stored in the `DEFAULT_REPOSITORY`dictionary, in case they were not already generated. In order to run this script, you must have already executed the PyDriller `code_metrics.py` and `metrics_evolution.py` scripts, as the classes and methods to be analyzed are the ones selected by the result of the analysis of the PyDriller generated data and metadata.

#### Configuration

In order to run this code as you want, you must modify the following constants:

1. `VERBOSE`: If you want to see the progress bar and the print statements, you must set the `VERBOSE` constant to `True`. If not, then a more clean output will be shown, with only the progress bar of the script execution, which is the default value of the `VERBOSE` constant. This constant is imported from the `repositories_refactors.py` file.  
2. `DESIRED_REFACTORINGS_ONLY`: A boolean that indicates if you want to filter the refactorings by the ones listed on the `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE` list. If set to `True`, it will filter the refactorings by the `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE` variable. If set to `False`, it will not filter the refactorings by the `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE` variable.
3. `DESIRED_REFACTORING_TYPE`: This must only be modified if the `DESIRED_REFACTORINGS_ONLY` is set to `True`. This is a list of the refactoring types that you are interested in. It must contain the names of the refactorings detected by RefactoringMiner. See more [here](https://github.com/tsantalis/RefactoringMiner?tab=readme-ov-file#general-info).  
4. `DEFAULT_REPOSITORY`: The repository name that has the classes or methods to be analyzed.  
5. `DEFAULT_REPOSITORIES`: A dictionary to store the repository name and the repository url. The `DEFAULT_REPOSITORY` must be one of the keys of this dictionary. This constant is imported from the `repositories_refactors.py` file.
6. `FILES_TO_ANALYZE`: A dictionary to store the files to analyze in the repository. It's keys (class name) and value (method name) must be the names of classes or methods that you want to analyze deeper after selecting them from the analysis of the PyDriller generated data and metadata.

#### Run

Now that you have set the constants, you can run the following command to execute the `metrics_evolution_refactors.py` file:

```shell
make metrics_evolution_refactors_script
```

### RefactoringMiner JSON Output

The script generates JSON files containing refactoring data for commits in the specified classes or methods of the repository. These files are organized in the `json_files` directory, following the repository's structure.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues while using the script, consider the following:

- Ensure that you have the required prerequisites installed and available in your system.

- Check the repository URL and make sure it is accessible.

- Verify that the paths specified in the script are correct, and the necessary directories exist.

- Verify if you have the PyDriller Metrics Evolution files that should be located as follows, otherwise it will not work:

  ```shell
  Worked-Example-Miner/PyDriller/metrics_evolution
  ```

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to this project, please read the Contributing section of the [Main README](../README.md) file, as well as the [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) file in this repository.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](../LICENSE). This license permits use, modification, distribution, and sublicense of the code for both private and commercial purposes, provided that the original copyright notice and a disclaimer of warranty are included in all copies or substantial portions of the software. It also requires a clear attribution back to the original author(s) of the repository. For more details, see the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file in this repository.
